docs/UserGuide.adoc, before:

= AddressBook Level 4 - User Guide
:site-section: UserGuide
:toc:
:toc-title:
:toc-placement: preamble
:sectnums:
:imagesDir: images
:stylesDir: stylesheets
:xrefstyle: full
:experimental:
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
endif::[]
:repoURL: https://github.com/se-edu/addressbook-level4

By: `Team SE-EDU`      Since: `Jun 2016`      Licence: `MIT`

== Introduction

AddressBook Level 4 (AB4) is for those who *prefer to use a desktop app for managing contacts*. More importantly, AB4 is *optimized for those who prefer to work with a Command Line Interface* (CLI) while still having the benefits of a Graphical User Interface (GUI). If you can type fast, AB4 can get your contact management tasks done faster than traditional GUI apps. Interested? Jump to the <<Quick Start>> to get started. Enjoy!

== Quick Start

.  Ensure you have Java version `9` or later installed in your Computer.
.  Download the latest `addressbook.jar` link:{repoURL}/releases[here].
.  Copy the file to the folder you want to use as the home folder for your Address Book.
.  Double-click the file to start the app. The GUI should appear in a few seconds.
+
image::Ui.png[width="790"]
+
.  Type the command in the command box and press kbd:[Enter] to execute it. +
e.g. typing *`help`* and pressing kbd:[Enter] will open the help window.
.  Some example commands you can try:

* *`list`* : lists all contacts
* **`add`**`n/John Doe p/98765432 e/johnd@example.com a/John street, block 123, #01-01` : adds a contact named `John Doe` to the Address Book.
* **`delete`**`3` : deletes the 3rd contact shown in the current list
* *`exit`* : exits the app

.  Refer to <<Features>> for details of each command.

[[Features]]
== Features

====
*Command Format*

* Words in `UPPER_CASE` are the parameters to be supplied by the user e.g. in `add n/NAME`, `NAME` is a parameter which can be used as `add n/John Doe`.
* Items in square brackets are optional e.g `n/NAME [t/TAG]` can be used as `n/John Doe t/friend` or as `n/John Doe`.
* Items with `…`​ after them can be used multiple times including zero times e.g. `[t/TAG]...` can be used as `{nbsp}` (i.e. 0 times), `t/friend`, `t/friend t/family` etc.
* Parameters can be in any order e.g. if the command specifies `n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER`, `p/PHONE_NUMBER n/NAME` is also acceptable.
====

=== Viewing help : `help`

Format: `help`

=== Adding a patient: `add`

Adds a patient to the address book +
Format: `add n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER e/EMAIL a/ADDRESS [t/TAG]...`

[TIP]
A patient can have any number of tags (including 0)

Examples:

* `add n/John Doe p/98765432 e/johnd@example.com a/John street, block 123, #01-01`
* `add n/Betsy Crowe t/friend e/betsycrowe@example.com a/Newgate Prison p/1234567 t/criminal`

=== Listing all patients : `list`

Shows a list of all patients in the address book. +
Format: `list`

=== Editing a patient : `edit`

Edits an existing patient in the address book. +
Format: `edit INDEX [n/NAME] [p/PHONE] [e/EMAIL] [a/ADDRESS] [t/TAG]...`

****
* Edits the patient at the specified `INDEX`. The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed patient list. The index *must be a positive integer* 1, 2, 3, ...
* At least one of the optional fields must be provided.
* Existing values will be updated to the input values.
* When editing tags, the existing tags of the patient will be removed i.e adding of tags is not cumulative.
* You can remove all the patient's tags by typing `t/` without specifying any tags after it.
****

Examples:

* `edit 1 p/91234567 e/johndoe@example.com` +
Edits the phone number and email address of the 1st patient to be `91234567` and `johndoe@example.com` respectively.
* `edit 2 n/Betsy Crower t/` +
Edits the name of the 2nd patient to be `Betsy Crower` and clears all existing tags.

=== Locating patients by name: `find`

Finds patients whose names contain any of the given keywords. +
Format: `find KEYWORD [MORE_KEYWORDS]`

****
* The search is case insensitive. e.g `hans` will match `Hans`
* The order of the keywords does not matter. e.g. `Hans Bo` will match `Bo Hans`
* Only the name is searched.
* Only full words will be matched e.g. `Han` will not match `Hans`
* Persons matching at least one keyword will be returned (i.e. `OR` search). e.g. `Hans Bo` will return `Hans Gruber`, `Bo Yang`
****

Examples:

* `find John` +
Returns `john` and `John Doe`
* `find Betsy Tim John` +
Returns any patient having names `Betsy`, `Tim`, or `John`

=== Deleting a patient : `delete`

Deletes the specified patient from the address book. +
Format: `delete INDEX`

****
* Deletes the patient at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed patient list.
* The index *must be a positive integer* 1, 2, 3, ...
****

Examples:

* `list` +
`delete 2` +
Deletes the 2nd patient in the address book.
* `find Betsy` +
`delete 1` +
Deletes the 1st patient in the results of the `find` command.

=== Selecting a patient : `select`

Selects the patient identified by the index number used in the displayed patient list. +
Format: `select INDEX`

****
* Selects the patient and loads the Google search page the patient at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed patient list.
* The index *must be a positive integer* `1, 2, 3, ...`
****

Examples:

* `list` +
`select 2` +
Selects the 2nd patient in the address book.
* `find Betsy` +
`select 1` +
Selects the 1st patient in the results of the `find` command.

=== Listing entered commands : `history`

Lists all the commands that you have entered in reverse chronological order. +
Format: `history`

[NOTE]
====
Pressing the kbd:[&uarr;] and kbd:[&darr;] arrows will display the previous and next input respectively in the command box.
====

// tag::undoredo[]
=== Undoing previous command : `undo`

Restores the address book to the state before the previous _undoable_ command was executed. +
Format: `undo`

[NOTE]
====
Undoable commands: those commands that modify the address book's content (`add`, `delete`, `edit` and `clear`).
====

Examples:

* `delete 1` +
`list` +
`undo` (reverses the `delete 1` command) +

* `select 1` +
`list` +
`undo` +
The `undo` command fails as there are no undoable commands executed previously.

* `delete 1` +
`clear` +
`undo` (reverses the `clear` command) +
`undo` (reverses the `delete 1` command) +

=== Redoing the previously undone command : `redo`

Reverses the most recent `undo` command. +
Format: `redo`

Examples:

* `delete 1` +
`undo` (reverses the `delete 1` command) +
`redo` (reapplies the `delete 1` command) +

* `delete 1` +
`redo` +
The `redo` command fails as there are no `undo` commands executed previously.

* `delete 1` +
`clear` +
`undo` (reverses the `clear` command) +
`undo` (reverses the `delete 1` command) +
`redo` (reapplies the `delete 1` command) +
`redo` (reapplies the `clear` command) +
// end::undoredo[]

=== Clearing all entries : `clear`

Clears all entries from the address book. +
Format: `clear`

=== Exiting the program : `exit`

Exits the program. +
Format: `exit`

=== Saving the data

Address book data are saved in the hard disk automatically after any command that changes the data. +
There is no need to save manually.

// tag::dataencryption[]
=== Encrypting data files `[coming in v2.0]`

_{explain how the user can enable/disable data encryption}_
// end::dataencryption[]

== FAQ

*Q*: How do I transfer my data to another Computer? +
*A*: Install the app in the other computer and overwrite the empty data file it creates with the file that contains the data of your previous Address Book folder.

== Command Summary

* *Add* `add n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER e/EMAIL a/ADDRESS [t/TAG]...` +
e.g. `add n/James Ho p/22224444 e/jamesho@example.com a/123, Clementi Rd, 1234665 t/friend t/colleague`
* *Clear* : `clear`
* *Delete* : `delete INDEX` +
e.g. `delete 3`
* *Edit* : `edit INDEX [n/NAME] [p/PHONE_NUMBER] [e/EMAIL] [a/ADDRESS] [t/TAG]...` +
e.g. `edit 2 n/James Lee e/jameslee@example.com`
* *Find* : `find KEYWORD [MORE_KEYWORDS]` +
e.g. `find James Jake`
* *List* : `list`
* *Help* : `help`
* *Select* : `select INDEX` +
e.g.`select 2`
* *History* : `history`
* *Undo* : `undo`
* *Redo* : `redo`

Commit message:

Update MC command
Updated MC command

docs/UserGuide.adoc, after:

= AddressBook Level 4 - User Guide
:site-section: UserGuide
:toc:
:toc-title:
:toc-placement: preamble
:sectnums:
:imagesDir: images
:stylesDir: stylesheets
:xrefstyle: full
:experimental:
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
endif::[]
:repoURL: https://github.com/se-edu/addressbook-level4

By: `Team SE-EDU`      Since: `Jun 2016`      Licence: `MIT`

== Introduction

AddressBook Level 4 (AB4) is for those who *prefer to use a desktop app for managing contacts*. More importantly, AB4 is *optimized for those who prefer to work with a Command Line Interface* (CLI) while still having the benefits of a Graphical User Interface (GUI). If you can type fast, AB4 can get your contact management tasks done faster than traditional GUI apps. Interested? Jump to the <<Quick Start>> to get started. Enjoy!

== Quick Start

.  Ensure you have Java version `9` or later installed in your Computer.
.  Download the latest `addressbook.jar` link:{repoURL}/releases[here].
.  Copy the file to the folder you want to use as the home folder for your Address Book.
.  Double-click the file to start the app. The GUI should appear in a few seconds.
+
image::Ui.png[width="790"]
+
.  Type the command in the command box and press kbd:[Enter] to execute it. +
e.g. typing *`help`* and pressing kbd:[Enter] will open the help window.
.  Some example commands you can try:

* *`list`* : lists all contacts
* **`add`**`n/John Doe p/98765432 e/johnd@example.com a/John street, block 123, #01-01` : adds a contact named `John Doe` to the Address Book.
* **`delete`**`3` : deletes the 3rd contact shown in the current list
* *`exit`* : exits the app

.  Refer to <<Features>> for details of each command.

[[Features]]
== Features

====
*Command Format*

* Words in `UPPER_CASE` are the parameters to be supplied by the user e.g. in `add n/NAME`, `NAME` is a parameter which can be used as `add n/John Doe`.
* Items in square brackets are optional e.g `n/NAME [t/TAG]` can be used as `n/John Doe t/friend` or as `n/John Doe`.
* Items with `…`​ after them can be used multiple times including zero times e.g. `[t/TAG]...` can be used as `{nbsp}` (i.e. 0 times), `t/friend`, `t/friend t/family` etc.
* Parameters can be in any order e.g. if the command specifies `n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER`, `p/PHONE_NUMBER n/NAME` is also acceptable.
====

=== Viewing help : `help`

Format: `help`

=== Adding a patient: `add`

Adds a patient to the address book +
Format: `add n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER e/EMAIL a/ADDRESS [t/TAG]...`

[TIP]
A patient can have any number of tags (including 0)

Examples:

* `add n/John Doe p/98765432 e/johnd@example.com a/John street, block 123, #01-01`
* `add n/Betsy Crowe t/friend e/betsycrowe@example.com a/Newgate Prison p/1234567 t/criminal`

=== Listing all patients : `list`

Shows a list of all patients in the address book. +
Format: `list`

=== Editing a patient : `edit`

Edits an existing patient in the address book. +
Format: `edit INDEX [n/NAME] [p/PHONE] [e/EMAIL] [a/ADDRESS] [t/TAG]...`

****
* Edits the patient at the specified `INDEX`. The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed patient list. The index *must be a positive integer* 1, 2, 3, ...
* At least one of the optional fields must be provided.
* Existing values will be updated to the input values.
* When editing tags, the existing tags of the patient will be removed i.e adding of tags is not cumulative.
* You can remove all the patient's tags by typing `t/` without specifying any tags after it.
****

Examples:

* `edit 1 p/91234567 e/johndoe@example.com` +
Edits the phone number and email address of the 1st patient to be `91234567` and `johndoe@example.com` respectively.
* `edit 2 n/Betsy Crower t/` +
Edits the name of the 2nd patient to be `Betsy Crower` and clears all existing tags.

=== Locating patients by name: `find`

Finds patients whose names contain any of the given keywords. +
Format: `find KEYWORD [MORE_KEYWORDS]`

****
* The search is case insensitive. e.g `hans` will match `Hans`
* The order of the keywords does not matter. e.g. `Hans Bo` will match `Bo Hans`
* Only the name is searched.
* Only full words will be matched e.g. `Han` will not match `Hans`
* Persons matching at least one keyword will be returned (i.e. `OR` search). e.g. `Hans Bo` will return `Hans Gruber`, `Bo Yang`
****

Examples:

* `find John` +
Returns `john` and `John Doe`
* `find Betsy Tim John` +
Returns any patient having names `Betsy`, `Tim`, or `John`

=== Deleting a patient : `delete`

Deletes the specified patient from the address book. +
Format: `delete INDEX`

****
* Deletes the patient at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed patient list.
* The index *must be a positive integer* 1, 2, 3, ...
****

Examples:

* `list` +
`delete 2` +
Deletes the 2nd patient in the address book.
* `find Betsy` +
`delete 1` +
Deletes the 1st patient in the results of the `find` command.

=== Selecting a patient : `select`

Selects the patient identified by the index number used in the displayed patient list. +
Format: `select INDEX`

****
* Selects the patient and loads the Google search page the patient at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed patient list.
* The index *must be a positive integer* `1, 2, 3, ...`
****

Examples:

* `list` +
`select 2` +
Selects the 2nd patient in the address book.
* `find Betsy` +
`select 1` +
Selects the 1st patient in the results of the `find` command.

=== Generate Medical Certificate : `mc`

Create a Medical Certificate based on the IC Number or Index Number from the last list/find command. +
Format: `mc <INDEX> d/<DATE>-<DATE> *DATE = DD-MM-YYYY` or `mc <IC Number> d/<DATE>-<DATE> *DATE = DD-MM-YYYY`

Examples:

* `mc 1 d/02-09-2018-04-09-2018` +
Generates MC for the 1st patient in the address book.
* `mc S7473920X d/02-09-2018-02-09-2018` +
Generates MC for the IC of the patient entered.

=== Listing entered commands : `history`

Lists all the commands that you have entered in reverse chronological order. +
Format: `history`

[NOTE]
====
Pressing the kbd:[&uarr;] and kbd:[&darr;] arrows will display the previous and next input respectively in the command box.
====

// tag::undoredo[]
=== Undoing previous command : `undo`

Restores the address book to the state before the previous _undoable_ command was executed. +
Format: `undo`

[NOTE]
====
Undoable commands: those commands that modify the address book's content (`add`, `delete`, `edit` and `clear`).
====

Examples:

* `delete 1` +
`list` +
`undo` (reverses the `delete 1` command) +

* `select 1` +
`list` +
`undo` +
The `undo` command fails as there are no undoable commands executed previously.

* `delete 1` +
`clear` +
`undo` (reverses the `clear` command) +
`undo` (reverses the `delete 1` command) +

=== Redoing the previously undone command : `redo`

Reverses the most recent `undo` command. +
Format: `redo`

Examples:

* `delete 1` +
`undo` (reverses the `delete 1` command) +
`redo` (reapplies the `delete 1` command) +

* `delete 1` +
`redo` +
The `redo` command fails as there are no `undo` commands executed previously.

* `delete 1` +
`clear` +
`undo` (reverses the `clear` command) +
`undo` (reverses the `delete 1` command) +
`redo` (reapplies the `delete 1` command) +
`redo` (reapplies the `clear` command) +
// end::undoredo[]

=== Clearing all entries : `clear`

Clears all entries from the address book. +
Format: `clear`

=== Exiting the program : `exit`

Exits the program. +
Format: `exit`

=== Saving the data

Address book data are saved in the hard disk automatically after any command that changes the data. +
There is no need to save manually.

// tag::dataencryption[]
=== Encrypting data files `[coming in v2.0]`

_{explain how the user can enable/disable data encryption}_
// end::dataencryption[]

== FAQ

*Q*: How do I transfer my data to another Computer? +
*A*: Install the app in the other computer and overwrite the empty data file it creates with the file that contains the data of your previous Address Book folder.

== Command Summary

* *Add* `add n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER e/EMAIL a/ADDRESS [t/TAG]...` +
e.g. `add n/James Ho p/22224444 e/jamesho@example.com a/123, Clementi Rd, 1234665 t/friend t/colleague`
* *Clear* : `clear`
* *Delete* : `delete INDEX` +
e.g. `delete 3`
* *Edit* : `edit INDEX [n/NAME] [p/PHONE_NUMBER] [e/EMAIL] [a/ADDRESS] [t/TAG]...` +
e.g. `edit 2 n/James Lee e/jameslee@example.com`
* *Find* : `find KEYWORD [MORE_KEYWORDS]` +
e.g. `find James Jake`
* *List* : `list`
* *Help* : `help`
* *Select* : `select INDEX` +
e.g.`select 2`
* *History* : `history`
* *Undo* : `undo`
* *Redo* : `redo`
